---
sidebar_position: 2
---

import FeedbackComponent from "@site/src/components/FeedbackComponent";

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Migrating from 3.x.x to 4.x.x

:::info
[Habanero Mainnet](../../network/networks/mainnet) and [Manzano Testnet](../../network/networks/testnet) are now live. Check out the [docs on migration](../../network/migration-guide) to learn how you can start building on Habanero and Manzano today. 
:::

V4 release is packed with several improvements, new features, and critical changes aimed at enhancing the robustness, usability, and overall performance of the Lit SDK. Here's everything you need to know about key changes and additions:.

## Possible Breaking Changes

### Improved Error Handling for `connect()`

In an effort to streamline error handling and improve the developer experience, `connect()` will now throw an error if connecting to the LIT network fails. This is a change from previous behavior, where failures to connect resulted in an `UnhandledRejection` or a dangling rejected Promise. If you have error handling already in place for `connect()`, this change should not impact your workflow.

### Introduction of `disconnect()`

We've added a new `disconnect()` method that effectively detaches our listeners for contract changes and network polling state. This is a step towards ensuring cleaner disconnections and better resource management.

### Renaming of `networkSyncInterval`

The `networkSyncInterval` property within lit-core (thus, in the lit-node-client) has been renamed to `_networkSyncInterval` and marked explicitly as private. This adjustment is crucial for those who previously relied on manually clearing the `networkSyncInterval` on the node client to allow their Node.js process to exit cleanly. Moving forward, please use the `disconnect()` method for this purpose.

## Enhancements and Fixes

### Core Improvements

We've ensured that multiple concurrent calls to `connect()` on the same instance do not trigger multiple handshakes. This optimization is expected to yield significant performance improvements.

The `connect()` logic has been refined to collect server keys and build a list of connected nodes in memory before updating the core configuration. This change addresses and eliminates a range of non-deterministic behavior previously encountered.

Complete overhaul of the `serverKeys` handling: Now, server keys are entirely replaced post-handshake with nodes, removing outdated keys and ensuring up-to-date connectivity.

### Bug Fixes

- Addressed several critical bugs identified during our rigorous testing phase.
- Resolved an issue with an incorrect key being set in `config.retryTolerance` — it's now correctly set to `maxRetryCount`.
- Fixed naming discrepancies in config properties for Manzano and Habanero, correcting `checkSevSnpAttestation` to the accurate `checkNodeAttestation`.
- Enhanced config mutation in the constructor for type safety, avoiding the use of `any` and as type coercion.
- Made `checkNodeAttestation` optional, acknowledging its varying relevance based on the LitNetwork network name provided.

### Type Enhancements

- Addressed some overly generic types by introducing more specific alternatives, thereby improving type safety and developer experience.
- Modified `LitNodeClientConfig` properties previously marked as required to be optional, catering to a broader range of use cases and configurations.

A comprehensive list of changes can be viewed [here](https://github.com/LIT-Protocol/js-sdk/releases/tag/v4.0.0).

# Installation

The v4 SDK is now the default for developers building on Lit. 

Install the `@lit-protocol/lit-node-client` package, which can be used in both browser and Node environments:  

```bash
yarn add @lit-protocol/lit-node-client
```

Use the **Lit JS SDK v4**:
```js
import * as LitJsSdk from "@lit-protocol/lit-node-client";
```

Get started [here](../installation.md).
<FeedbackComponent/>
